Project Components

There are three components you'll need to complete for this project.
1. ETL Pipeline

In a Python script, process_data.py, write a data cleaning pipeline that:

    Loads the messages and categories datasets
    Merges the two datasets
    Cleans the data
    Stores it in a SQLite database

2. ML Pipeline

In a Python script, train_classifier.py, write a machine learning pipeline that:

    Loads data from the SQLite database
    Splits the dataset into training and test sets
    Builds a text processing and machine learning pipeline
    Trains and tunes a model using GridSearchCV
    Outputs results on the test set
    Exports the final model as a pickle file

3. Flask Web App

We are providing much of the flask web app for you, but feel free to add extra features depending on your knowledge of flask, html, css and javascript. For this part, you'll need to:

    Modify file paths for database and model as needed
    Add data visualizations using Plotly in the web app. One example is provided for you

Github and Code Quality

Your project will also be graded based on the following:

    Use of Git and Github
    Strong documentation
    Clean and modular code

Follow the RUBRIC when you work on your project to assure you meet all of the necessary criteria for developing the pipelines and web app.


    [...] Go into more detail about the dataset and your data cleaning and modeling process in your README file, add screenshots of your web app and model results.
    [ ] Add more visualizations to the web app.
    Based on the categories that the ML algorithm classifies text into, advise some organizations to connect to.
    [X] Customize the design of the web app.
    [ ] Deploy the web app to a cloud service provider.
    Improve the efficiency of the code in the ETL and ML pipeline.
    [ ] This dataset is imbalanced (ie some labels like water have few examples). In your README, discuss how this imbalance, how that affects training the model, and your thoughts about emphasizing precision or recall for the various categories.
